are there any new ideas in vegan
activism vegan politics yes and no in
the last five years I can say the big
debate ideologically on an abstract
level of political theory has maybe been
abolitionism versus the citizenship
approach Sony's fell off my desk don't
worry about it keep rolling no take to
write and on the level of street
activism on the level of public outreach
education and you know activism in a
narrow sense an applied sense the
dispute is actually been invoked
pamphlets whether or not pamphlets are
effective or ineffective as a way of
creating a vegan world it may sound like
a ridiculous simplification you but
please take this example into
consideration direct action everywhere
DXE they were founded with a mandate of
challenging overcoming and moving beyond
the pamphlet giving paradigm their
founder Wayne's Young years of bitter
experience discovered that handing out
pamphlets on university campus was a
completely ineffective way of getting
people interested in veganism or
converting to veganism on an intuitive
level we can all sympathize with that
his conclusion was to found a new
movement in veganism that was strictly
defined by and guided by the findings
and Social Sciences his clear opposition
would be animal charity evaluator zay
siiii and to some extent mercy for
animals and they for their part deeply
believed that handing out pamphlets is
effective and that they can prove it
through social science research and that
social science research will vindicate
their claims that if you donate one
thousand dollars to them they will take
that money and print so many pamphlets
and then they can measure as a real
scientific metric how many new people
will convert to veganism because there's
a predictable relationship the number of
dollars the number of pamphlets they're
handed out on a university campus and
the number of new people who will become
vegan they will give a link to an
article below this
video in that article by Nathan Harrison
actually the scientific concedes of
pretty much all sides are destroyed but
it's interesting we have these two
opposite extremes that really depart on
the issue of pamphlets and even though
there are office extremes on this issue
they both feel that the findings of
social science research can and will and
should define future veganism as a
movement interest anything positive
commitment to thing or the defeat of the
abolitionists versus the the citizen who
broke the approach people oh my god it's
absurd I think with commitment is that
all vegans have learned that it's
incredibly hard to get five vegans to
work together in an organization and
direct action everywhere is itself a
fascinating example of that direct
action everywhere originally proclaim
themselves to have no centralized
organization they proclaim that they
would be a totally horizontal
organization total horizontal no
vertical no no hierarchy is basically
this mean that nobody was giving orders
no estate he orders now I was one of
many people on the appointed that was a
lie that was never true there was one
self-appointed dictator for life Wayne's
Young and his girlfriend and they were
the king and queen and everyone had to
follow their orders and there were
different chapters in the structure but
some chapters were more equal than
others and whatever they had a problem
for example that a number of sex
scandals they would then be challenged
by the public or I remember said well
what are you doing about the sex scandal
and they turn and say oh don't worry we
have this totally hierarchical manage
your real structure this person reports
to this person they take the complaint
to this committee and they were poured
it on and it ain't so was that a sex
scandal if it's revealed that a one
hundred percent bureaucratic almost
communist hierarchical structure totally
centralized totally an equal to their
article but publicly under website they
were proclaiming they were fully
horizontal there were no leaders and no
followers they were just a network a
social network providing community
and different Nexus points and days of
action for people to me so quite a few
things have changed now if you go to
their website they instead espouse of
philosophy of emergent leadership and
they more transparently than ever admit
that yes they are a group with leaders
and followers and that Chicago has more
decision-making power than Texas needles
to say Chicago is more decision-making
power than someone in Africa or Thailand
or what have you so they've had to fess
up they've had to reform their approach
and there's strategy towards these
things so look no doubt looking over the
new ideas that have come and gone in
veganism in the last five years if we go
back ten years I've made videos with us
before we really saw the dying away of
the inner Co primitive s approach that
was huge back in two thousand and one we
saw you know approaches that tend to be
focused on domesticated animals people's
affections for their pets animal rescue
animal shelters you know we found the
rise of the anti speciesist approach of
trying to construe the struggle of
veganism as parallel to the abolition of
slavery equality for black people being
construed as equivalent to equality for
animals we have had a number of new
ideas emerge but I think when you look
at the rise and fall of each of those
disputes for example there was a very
passionate debate between Gary francia
on a and a direct action everywhere when
he was challenging them on their beliefs
they subscribed to temporarily direct
action everywhere subscribe to the same
idea that mercy for animals subscribes
to that vegans should not preach llegan
ism and should not even use the word
vegan so bizarre chapter unless I've
years because they believed that it was
more effective as activists to so-called
get your foot in the door to use vaguely
suggests reduce it Arianism cutting down
on meat instead of actually arguing for
veganism to take this really self
contradictory and covertly vegan
approach and so anyway just make sure
that was a very dramatic debate we're
girlfriend Sione challenged them on that
if you
check the article with the link below
this video you'll actually find the
evidence-based argument for that is
deeply flawed it was always been
misleading there never has been a social
science rationale for the just get your
footman to approach the pro vegetarian
approach in the crypto vegan approach as
opposed to be honest and open direct
with people that you're about veganism
in ecology and animal rights and what
have you in looking at the rise and fall
of all of these ideas whether
ideological or pragmatic you know
whether they're about the style of
education outreach or more in terms of
political theory I think anyone can see
that by far the most successful groups
have been the groups that are totally
outside of these tivity probably in the
single greatest success now very late in
his career is McDougald you know dr.
MacDougall with his diet books and he's
actually created a durable foundation
for public education engaged in
promoting his particular form of low oil
a low-fat starch-based big Hyatt it's
incredibly effective it's incredibly
influential and souls it's also esteemed
it also has public trust right and
that's something that's hard to qualify
parchme hard to quantify but you know
how do people regard you if what you're
known for if what you're appearing on
the news for is screaming like a maniac
in a Taco Bell because you're morally
opposed to people eating meat which is
what DXE does their disruption of it yes
they get press coverage but this isn't
building trust cooperation this isn't
building esteem you know as opposed to
me MacDougall does get on TV from time
to time and on the radio what have you
but this point he's big enough that he
has his own events its own conferences
and forced publishers on books for many
many years how is he perceived by the
public and what is the case he's make
has an event now the ethical veganism is
a tiny fragment of his approach to
veganism he does actually espouse
ethical veganism but it's in there
almost as a footnote but in terms of
method MacDougall success probably has
more to teach us than all the so-called
social science discourse that groups
like direct action
we're an AC e-waste so many pages
discussing and another one obviously is
pcrm pcrm Physicians Committee for
Responsible medicine again do they even
broach ethical veganism for them it's
mostly science-based dietary and health
based veganism but what they've engaged
in isn't a lesson you can simply take
from the social sciences what have you
what they've engaged in his
old-fashioned washington DC lobbying
including lawsuits yes lawsuits for the
progress of civilization putting
together a lawsuit taking the US
government to court engaging in lobbying
really old-fashioned washington DC pork
barrel politics lobbying in in the most
despicable sense of the word lobbying
these are the groups that I think what
might as well say over the last five
years where we can see tremendous
success despite the fact they had no
contact with any of these ideas so look
at mcdougall look at pcrm where do they
stand on abolitionism vs. citizenship
approach or my own approach is the
wildlife management paradigm I reject
both the citizenship paradigm and the
evolution is going on I talk about
wildlife management approach who is
fundamentally different um where C stand
on hbo's issued the history as they
stand knowing I'm so sorry where do they
stand are the social science of
effective agnes of anfo courage they
understand they have been outside of you
know the High House of these disputes of
what's been going on with in veganism
annual with that being said I actually
do not want to belittle somebody like
Wayne's Young even though frankly I
think his writing is garbage i think its
articles are idiotic and amazingly
counterproductive i think the whole
flirtation that Wayne had and also that
groups like Mercy for Animals had with
this idea that veganism dare not speak
its own name that veganism shouldn't
promote veganism medicine for reduced
areas instead ludacris self-defeating
you know debate gavin in the movement
could go on and on about that but i just
want to say
even is coming back to the original idea
that sparked direct actually everywhere
I can recognize Megan respected
sincerity of where it was coming from
that Wayne had these years of experience
handing out pamphlets and he said we've
got to go back to the drawing board this
isn't working and I can look at groups
like animal charity evaluate errs again
if you read the link below this video
you're going to find it been totally
corrupt totally incompetent and they
have really misrepresented pseudoscience
as the progress of science in advance
eat vegan movement really outright lies
tremendous contempt for animal charity
valuators and what they did with a
unique opportunity where they could have
done something positive moment but with
that being said I can still recognize
that that started with this same impulse
of vegans taking a look at what they've
been doing for the past five years and
saying this hasn't been working there
has to be a better way